# Aropä: Peer Review made Easy - Review practice tasks

Review practice tasks are useful for familiarisation and skill
development for students who are new to peer review.  The process
involves the instructor allocating one or more texts for students to
review. The review process is the same as for peer review, but rather
than reviewing each others’ work, students review works you select.

## Setup

To setup a review practice activity, fill in the assignment name, the
submission and review dates, and the submission requirements. Even
though your students will not upload any submissions themselves, they
still need to be given dates for reviewing to start and end. The
submission end date in this case acts as the review start date.

Now, under `Specify Allocations`,

* In the `For Authors` dropdown, select “just the non-student authors
  below”

* In the `Non-student authors (if any)` box, enter a user name for you
  to use when you upload the selected text. For example, I enter
  “jham005-submitter".

  You will need to use this persona (through `Impersonate User`) when
  uploading the text you have selected for review. You can’t upload
  documents through your own instructor account, as you need student
  rather than instructor privileges to do this.

* Reviewers should be “everyone in the class”.

* Enter `the number of submissions each peer reviewer should mark`.
  This will usually be just “1”.

  You can now use `Impersonate User`, and enter your “student persona”
  (for example, I would use “jham005-submitter"). Select the review
  practice assignment, and upload your selected text.

  In the case where you would like students to review more than one
  text, you will need to use a different persona for each text, and
  repeat the submission step above for each persona. You will also
  need to enter the names of the personas in the `Non-student authors`
  box, and change `the number of submissions each peer reviewer should
  mark` as desired.

## Feedback

After reviewing is complete, students will be able to read reviews
written by all the other students who reviewed the same selected texts
as they did. For a small class, this may be useful, but in a large
class it becomes unwieldy.

A common variation is to instead let the students read one or more
expert reviews. The experts (such as yourself) need to be added as
Markers in the class list (use `Edit Class List`). Again, an
alternative user name is needed to distinguish this role. For example,
I might use “jham005- marker”. Now, when you return to `Specify
Allocations`, you will see a list of class markers. The selected
markers will be given a share (or all) of the texts to review.

Finally, the user names of the markers need to be entered in the
`Restricted review viewing` section, at the bottom of the `Edit
Assignment` page. If any user names are entered here, students will
just see the reviews written by these (expert) reviewers.

## Summary

The steps to setting up a review practice task are:

* Identify a text you want students to review.

* Create the assignment, and enter the submission and review end
  dates. The submission end date is the review start date.

* Specify the submission requirements.

* Enter the names of the expert reviewers whose reviews you would like
  students to read. If you leave this blank, all students will see all
  reviews written on the same submissions they review.

* Specify “Non-student authors” and “every one in the class” as
  reviewers.  Enter your student persona name in the non-student
  authors box.
  
* Activate the assignment.

* Impersonate your student persona and upload the text.

* Done!

Review practice tasks are a gentle, non-threatening introduction to
peer review. A graduated series of these exercises can be used to
build confidence and reviewing skill. The activity works well in
large, introductory classes, as a prelude to undertaking a
peer-review.
