# Aropä: Peer Review made Easy - Tutor marking

Aropä allows student peer review activities to be mixed in with
traditional instructor or tutor marking. This is typically done to
alleviate student anxiety in a high-stakes assessment, by reassuring
students that the mark for their assignment will be decided by experts
as well as (or rather than) their peers. While there is abundant
evidence that students are reliable and accurate markers, this type of
peer review does offer some additional quality control.

## Setup

Enter the names of the instructors or tutors who will be doing the
marking on the `Edit Class List` page. If you wish to do marking
yourself, you will need to enter a different user name to your usual
instructor account.  A common practice is to add the suffix “-marker”;
so, I would use “jham005-marker”. This is necessary because Aropä
provides a different interface to instructors from markers and
students.

Note that you won’t need to enter a password for your marker account.
Instead, switch to this account using the Impersonate Other User
facility. When you are finished marking, you can switch back to your
instructor account by pressing the “revert” button on the top-right of
the page.

When you have entered the marker names, open `Specify Allocations`.

* Select the type of allocations you want, as usual

* In the `Markers` panel, you will see the names of all the markers
  you entered in the class list. If you have more than one marker you
  have the choice of sharing the marking between them or having each
  marker review every submission.

* Select or un-select the markers you wish to use for this activity.

* You’re done!

## Calculating grades

Peer review is a powerful means of quickly generating copious amounts
of written, formative feedback. However, it can also be used for
assigning marks. In Aropä, you can choose whether to use just the
marks assigned by tutors, or to use a weighted average of all the
tutor and peer marks.

By default, the `Grade Calculator` takes a weighted average of all the
marks it has available. The calculator has many options, and they are
described in detail in another screen cast. The `Settings` tab allows
you to select which reviews to include in the grade calculations. You
can select: just the (tutor) markers, just the students, or all the
reviews. Remember to press the `Recalculate` button after you change
the selection

## Summary

The steps to setting up a non-peer review are:

* Enter the names of the markers in the `Edit  Class List` page.

* Create the assignment as usual.

* Select which markers you want to use, and how they should divide the
  work.

Traditional tutor marking does not have to be abandoned when moving to
peer reviewing. For a high-stakes assignment, students will be
reassured to know their work has been checked by an expert. When
grades are involved, you have the choice between using just the marks
given by tutors, or using the average of tutor and student marks.

This dual marking also lets you check the correlation between the two,
and decide in an evidence-based way whether there is value in
continuing to use your tutors for marking.
